## RendezVous

RendezVous is a simple command line utility that helps you merge string file resources with existing translations.
If you are familiar with [this app](http://www.delitestudio.com/app/localizable-strings-merge/), then you already know what it does. If you don't, here's a very brief explanation:

If you are dealing with a product that requires localization you've probably had to, at some point, add new strings to your app. When that happens, you'll eventually have extract them and merge them back into existing translated files. This can be a time consuming and error-prone process. 

This tool does one thing only:
It takes the output generated by `genstrings` and merges the relevant changes into the existing translated files. When I say "merges the relevant changes" I mean:

* Updates comments
* Removes deleted keys
* Inserts created keys
* Copies missing files

This works with any `.strings` file, meaning that if you work with separate string table files, it can also merge those.

### Building

RendezVous was built using Swift 2.0, so you'll need the latest Xcode 7 beta to build it. Xcode 7 final should be released very soon, so expect it to break when that happens.

### Usage

This is a command line tool, so you'll probably want to copy or link the resulting binary to some location referenced from your `PATH`.

When you run './rendezvous' with no arguments, you'll see the following:

````
RendezVous, a simple .strings merger by Pedro Gomes (c) 2015

Usage:
  rendezvous <generated_dir> <translations_dir>

Examples:
  rendezvous ~/Projects/MyProject/GeneratedStrings ~/Projects/MyProject/Translations
```

Hopefully this is self-explanatory, but in any case:

* `<generated_dir>` represents a directory containing the latest output from `genstrings`
* `<translations_dir>` represents the directory containing your project's `.lproj` folders

So if you have a bunch of `.strings` file on `~/Projects/MyProject/GeneratedStrings` and your language folders under `~/Projects/MyProject/MyProject` you'll want to run:

`rendezvous ~/Projects/MyProject/GeneratedStrings ~/Projects/MyProject/MyProject`

RendezVous will execute and print out the list of files it has changed, along with the list of keys it has updated, created or deleted.

### Caveats

* This tool is currently of pre-alpha quality and hasn't been thoroughly tested
* It was effectively the first time I wrote anything remotely meaningful using Swift
* Why Swift? Because I wanted to
* Am I happy with the code? No, not at all, but maybe it'll improve somewhat as I spend some more time with Swift
* Requires resource files to be **UTF-8 encoded** so you may need to convert them first. I plan on addressing this soon, but in the interim you may need to use `iconv` to conver files back and forth depending on whether you're working on a Mac or iOS app
